[Music]
you're staying in a village full of
cultists when your friends go missing
the villagers have drugged you and
they're hiding a dark secret
every day spent here is a day closer to
death trapped in these woods with no way
to contact the outside world
what do you do i'm going to break down
the mistakes made what you should do
and how to be the death cult in
mid-summer
[Music]
chris here is the worst boyfriend in the
world he's at a restaurant with his
friends and thinks he should finally
break up with his girlfriend danny
the guys pressure him to end it as soon
as possible but that's when he gets a
call from his girlfriend
screaming she's just found out that her
sister filled the house of carbon
monoxide killing her entire family
now danny here has no one left except
for her boyfriend and doesn't realize
he's planning to dump her
months later she's trying her best to
cope with the loss and finds that her
boyfriend is planning a trip to sweden
josh here is writing a thesis on the
midsummer festival and the others are
tagging along but when she decides to
invite herself none of the friends are
happy about her joint
she asks pele here about where they're
going and he reveals that this is where
he grew up
his community is very secluded and have
been practicing their secret traditions
for a long time
she finds it fascinating but when he
mentions his family she's immediately
struggled with grief
and runs away from the conversation okay
this girl is going through some serious
trauma but suppressing this kind of
experience is really bad for you
when you're in a fragile mental state
like this going to a new country in an
unfriendly social setting is a disaster
waiting to happen and it puts you at
greater risk for self-harm
or a psychotic break now as far as bad
decisions go
chris here is in a tough situation he
would be a terrible person if he dumps
his girlfriend after what just happened
but he also needs a way out of the
relationship
without destroying her honestly the best
way to deal with this is by not taking
her to sweden
i would book her a two-week stay in a
rehabilitation clinic where she's going
to be looked after and the gesture is
going to appear supportive and caring
getting her psychological help opens the
door for this guy to slowly break up
with her and that is way better than
bringing her to sweden and pretending
everything is fine because it's going to
backfire
arriving in sweden their friends rent a
car and make a four-hour drive into the
countryside
far away from civilization when they
finally reach their first stop
pele here takes him over to introduce
them to his brother ingmar
he has invited his own friends from
london and welcomes them all with a bag
of psychedelic mushrooms
the tourists are more than happy to
accept but dany here is not prepared for
this
she refuses at first and the boyfriend
decides to wait with her but when the
group gets offended she accepts the gift
in a special tea and they all wait for
the trip
to kick in not long after dany here
starts seeing things but when one of
their friends mentions their family
it triggers her and the girl starts to
freak out she walks away
trying to suppress her memories and
enters a restaurant to hide in but when
she sees her dead sister in the mirror
it becomes too much
running into the forest she stumbles
deep into the woods and blacks out
she wakes up biting her boyfriend
standing over her and he tells her she's
been unconscious for six hours
okay clearly she should not be doing
drugs right now the active chemical in
psychedelic mushrooms is called
psilocybin which links different regions
of the brain that wouldn't normally talk
to each other
now what's interesting is that medical
researchers use psychedelic mushrooms to
treat depression and mental illnesses
with great effectiveness
during a five-year trial at john hopkins
80 percent of their patients
showed a significant drop in symptoms of
depression and anxiety but doing a
clinical study and taking drugs out in
the field with friends who don't give a
[ __ ] about you are completely different
things
her trauma will come to the forefront of
her mind and out of her control
before letting it get this far she needs
to think for herself and refuse the
drugs
they walk further into the wilderness
until they finally reach the village
entering through this huge wooden
archway their friend introduces them to
the rest of his family and everyone is
extremely kind giving special attention
to danny here
the midsummer festival begins and the
villagers start dancing in celebration
the group is enjoying the show when
suddenly the boyfriend here gets kicked
by one of the girls
he sees her smiling and decides he wants
to join in leaving his girlfriend
all alone pella here notices the girls
uncomfortable and gives her a portrait
he drew for her birthday her boyfriend
didn't even remember and she thanks him
for
the present but the man tells her to
keep it a secret
okay this is a really nice gesture but
there's a lot more here than meets the
eye
this picture is extremely detailed with
a lot of shading and would take a long
time
he definitely didn't draw it on this
blanket because there's no hard surface
and they've only just arrived
this sketch was premeditated and it
tells us he either likes this girl or
there's something else going on here
the portrait has two runic symbols on
the bottom of the page
we can't expect her to know what these
are but if she asked he would have told
her that they mean journey and rebirth
now instead of being flattered she
should be creeped out because by looking
around the compound we would find a very
disturbing tapestry with the same
symbols as the ones on this page
it tells a story about a girl who falls
in love and trims her pubic hair to feed
to her crush
after eating it he's placed under a love
spell this is already cause for concern
but what's interesting is that the
symbol on her birthday present is
inverted
historically when these runes are
inverted it gives a dark or negative
meaning so this
message literally reads a bad journey to
rebirth
that's not the kind of gift i would want
for my birthday and if she had dug a
little deeper here
she could have figured out that this
guy's a lot more dangerous than he
appears
they're taken to the dormitories with
her friend pele explains that his people
see life in different seasons and
there's no one in the village older than
72 asking their guide why he says they
get executed and shrugs it off
they think he's joking but they're going
to learn very soon that he means every
word
the next day the villagers gather for
the anti-stupa ceremony and the friends
have no idea what to expect
the elders are taken to the top of a
massive cliff drawing blood to place on
a rune stone which has a journey symbol
on it
dany looks up and sees the woman step
forward as she realizes what's about to
happen
the group is horrified as they watch
this woman fall to her death
bashing her face on the rock below the
girl is beyond traumatized and looks
around in a daze as the other tourists
start to panic but the villagers
all look calm turning back to the cliff
she watches as the old man jumps and
breaks both of his legs but manages to
survive the fall
the villagers start wailing and crying
as a small group approaches the elder
and bashes his brains in with a giant
mallet
okay this is getting a little out of
control all this culture stuff is fine
if we're simply observing old traditions
like wearing stupid frocks and moccasins
but if throwing two senior citizens off
of a cliff
is culturally acceptable behavior then
i'll bet they're willing to do a whole
lot more
these villagers didn't even flinch at
watching the woman get her face smashed
in and now we need to be thinking about
what else is on the menu because if we
look back far enough
swedish culture can get pretty [ __ ] up
during the medieval ages vikings would
sometimes sacrifice someone to odin by
pulling their ribs out from their back
and placing their lungs over the top
they would also throw people into wells
and if they never came back up then
their gods would answer their prayers
even in viking funerals a servant would
be drugged tortured and killed so they
could die with their masters and
kings at this point i'm thinking any one
of these swedish cultural traditions are
all on the table and if it's me i'm not
sticking around to find out which one
comes next
but there is one tradition that's worth
learning from and that's because as
brutal as vikings were
they kept a great hair routine did you
know that two out of three guys will
experience some form of male pattern
baldness by the time they're 35
and the best way to prevent hair loss is
to do something about it while you still
have hair left
today's sponsor keeps offers generic
versions of the only two
fda approved hair loss products out
there you may have tried them before but
probably never for this price
with an easy online doctor consultation
and delivery straight to your door
you can keep your hair and cave look
like ragnar lod rock and you don't have
to raid and burn lindisfarne to do
it prevention is key keeps treatment
typically take between four to six
months to see results so it's important
to act fast
the sooner you start using keeps the
more hair you'll save if you're ready to
take action and prevent hair loss go to
keeps.com
how to beat or click the link in the
description to receive 50 off your first
order
that's k-e-e-p-s dot com slash how to
beat
you won't need a dang gail for these
prices and thank you to keeps for
sponsoring this video
sickened by this ritual the british
tourists begin to leave but they're
stopped by a village leader
she urges them to stay explaining that
the ceremony is an honor for her people
and it was their choice to die
everyone walks back to the village but
dany here is starting to crack
she's been avoiding all thoughts of
death and now it's staring her in the
face
her boyfriend however is inspired back
in the dormitory he tells his friend
that he's decided to write his college
thesis on the heart of people just like
him
joshua isn't happy about this but
there's nothing he can do to convince
him out of it
later that day pele here goes back to
the dormitory where he finds dany is
packing up her things
she's horrified by what she saw and
wants to leave getting her to calm down
pele here tells her he understands what
she's going through because he lost his
parents when he was young
these people accepted him as family and
wants her to feel like she has a family
too
okay this is starting to become a
pattern pele here has gone out of his
way to make her feel accepted and on the
surface that looks like a good thing but
it's also exactly what would happen if
you're being lured into a cult
they like to trap people in shame cycles
and convince you that anything
outside of their family will only cause
you pain she's being made to believe
she can't survive on her own and needs
this group to replace the family she's
lost
this is highly manipulative behavior and
we need to stay alert to more cult-like
patterns because there's a lot more
going on here
when the british tourists wanted to
leave the village leader interrupted the
ceremony to convince them to stay
it's also extremely weird that they
didn't warn anyone in advance
about what was going on this means they
would prefer visitors they feel trapped
in a situation they can't control
and make them emotionally dependent in
their decision making under the surface
there's enough dishonesty here to
convince me this is not just culture and
we need to leave the compound by any
means necessary
that night everyone is sleeping in the
shared dormitory when this girl gets up
and sneaks across the room
she crouches by the boyfriend's bed and
places a rune underneath it unaware that
josh here is watching her
the next morning he shows the room to
his friend and finds out it's used in
love spells
that's when their friend chris arrives
and pele mentions that a village girl
has a crush on him and wants to mate
with him
she's finally old enough for breeding
according to harga's society and it
takes chris here by surprise
but strangely he seems interested in the
idea okay
this guy is crazy it's always nice to be
appreciated but he should really think
this through
because getting involved with a local
girl who's probably way too young to be
considered legal is not a road he should
go down
in viking culture girls were considered
ready for marriage by the age of 12
to 15. so for chris to even consider
this proposal is absolutely terrible
now even if he were to go through with
it this culture does everything together
they eat together sleep together kill
their grandparents together they
probably even made together so unless
you want to include the whole family and
fun time activities
don't do this he's also brought his
traumatized girlfriend along for the
ride and this place has zero privacy
so it's literally the worst idea in the
world across the village connie here is
packing up to lead when a villager tells
her that her boyfriend has already left
and the car will be back to pick her up
she doesn't believe him and decides to
leave on her own with no idea that's the
last time she'll ever be seen again
danny finds her boyfriend and tells him
that one of the british tourists have
gone missing but he's more concerned
about getting information for his thesis
he asks if the harca people have
problems with inbreeding in such a small
community and the man tells them they
often need to invite
outside people to mate with okay this
is seriously concerning because now we
know why they're trying to keep us here
honestly this community has not thought
this through if all they want were these
people's genetics then they should have
the orgy first and kill the old people
after they leave
there's no good reason to breathe into
the ate stupa ceremony because it freaks
everyone out
if the world knew that a village in
sweden was pushing their grandparents
off of cliffs and breeding their
children
there would be a lot of intervention
anyone who leaves this place
is putting their lifelong traditions at
risk of exposure to the outside world
the fact that this hasn't happened yet
means they must have a way of ensuring
that those who come here will never
talk earlier haley hair made sure that
danny didn't leave when he saw her
packing
since we don't know what to do with us
after the celebration it gives us enough
reason to think our lives might be in
danger and we should leave the compound
without telling anyone with this much
deception and gaslighting i would tell
them nothing and just leave during one
of their festival celebrations because
it guarantees the whole community will
be there
and will be able to look for the car
keys and pelle's belongings to escape
now we also need to plan on the
possibility that we can't find the keys
or get a cell phone signal when we're
this far away from civilization
compared to the united states large
areas of sweden have no coverage at all
and these guys are in hulsing land which
is known for its dense forests
it's also one of the largest countries
with the second lowest population
density in the european union so the
chances of you finding any help out here
is very slim
the best thing to do is follow a page
road and follow it north
there's also more likelihood to be a
phone signal on a main highway and you'd
be able to call emergency
services joshua wants to learn more
about their holy books and talks to one
of the village leaders
discovering that each version is painted
by the village's inbred oracle and
interpreted by a leading member of the
community
surprised he asks the elder if he can
take a photo of the book and is told
it's strictly forbidden but that's not
going to stop him from getting what he
wants
later that day an angry villager runs
across the field and starts screaming at
mark here but he has no idea why
the man explains that mark was peeing on
an ancestral tree and has insulted their
entire village
his friend tries to make him understand
that it's sacred to his people but mark
here thinks it's not a big deal and he
has no idea he's just made a dangerous
enemy
everyone in the village prepares for
lunch and dany here realizes that both
british tourists are now missing but one
the villagers quickly commented they
were taken to the station
mark here notices that the man he pissed
off is still glaring at him from across
the dinner table but that's when chris
here
suddenly finds a pubic hair in his food
he doesn't realize that this is only
part of their secret mating ritual and
he's been selected for breeding
mark here is suddenly invited by a
village girl and he leaves the dinner
table to join her
okay when people are going missing you
shouldn't let any of your friends out of
sight
mark here is being unexpectedly lured
away by a pretty girl and after pissing
on the village's ancestral tree it's
very unlikely that he's going to be
rewarded for it
this looks suspicious and mark should
not be going anywhere alone
we can't trust these people but it's
important we don't let them know that
pretending to cooperate is essential
because the more they believe we're
willing to accept and join their
cultural traditions the easier it will
be to exploit that trust and gather all
the information we need to write a
thesis so we can all get the [ __ ] out of
here safely
that night joshua sneaks into the temple
where they keep their holy book and
takes
photos of the pages inside but he
doesn't notice that someone is behind
him
turning around he's startled when he
sees a stranger standing in the doorway
as someone else hits him in the head and
knocks him out
the stranger approaches and we quickly
realize that his friend has been
murdered and this guy
is wearing his face as a mask the next
day they noticed that more of their
friends have gone missing and are told
that the village's holy book has
disappeared from the temple but chris
here assures the leaders that they
didn't do it
okay we can't ignore the pattern here
there are now four people that have gone
missing without a convincing explanation
this is beyond coincidence now and
what's most important to realize is that
if anyone was going to disappear
it definitely wouldn't be josh the whole
reason they're on this trip is so he can
study the community and write his thesis
it tells us these people are dangerous
and now we have proof that these
tourists aren't just leaving the
compound they're being killed
mark was lured away by this woman and
had his face removed for the oracle to
wear as a mask
and even though they don't know this yet
if my friends had gone missing i would
be looking for them throughout the
entire compound checking
every single building until the truth
was uncovered if they did this
not only would we find mark being worn
as a mask but they would also discover
that the british tourist is being
viciously tortured in the chicken coop
and their friend josh has been turned
into a garden ornament
that's not even the worst of it because
it's about to get freaky medieval after
this
now for students writing a college
thesis these guys are seriously bad at
picking up the details here because even
before people went missing there were
signs
everywhere that this place was not safe
they passed this bear in a cage and
nobody even said a word and they didn't
even notice
the wall paintings are full of bears
being set on fire
this should be freaking them out there's
also paintings of people drying blood to
sacrifice themselves
and exploring details in their cultural
art is enough information to tell them
that their lives are in serious danger
here and if they continue to participate
in their culture it's only a matter of
time before someone will get tortured
and killed
and that's exactly what's about to
happen next
outside the girlfriend is given a
specialty for the mayqueen competition
with the other young girls of the
village and they go to form a circle
around the maypole but when she looks
down at her feet
she realizes that she's been drugged and
panicked the competition
begins and they all start dancing dany
is even enjoying herself but the girls
suddenly stop which causes two dancers
to fall down and get eliminated
they change their formation and the
dancing gets faster as more of them drop
out of the competition as the dancing
continues the boyfriend is offered a cup
of water with special properties
he hesitates but when he sees the girl
who likes him he downs the entire glass
and it's going to cost him everything
okay
the woman just told him this drink is
going to help break down his defenses
and make him more open-minded
now generally speaking these are good
qualities to have but the problem is
i don't see anybody else being offered
this drug water and that means that
whatever is about to happen
is not something we would be okay with
in our normal state of mind
this is a huge red flag and if i were
him i would refuse the drug to make sure
my judgment wasn't impaired
now even without drugs we're already in
an environment that makes us highly
susceptible to influence because when
you're looking at this as a cultural
activity then you apply moral relativism
it might not be right to you but it's
moral for them because it's a part of
their culture
so you end up suspending your own moral
judgment and accepting the group's
opinion
adding drugs to the mix makes it next to
impossible to protect ourselves for
being influenced here we don't know if
they're going to do something terrible
to us like we saw at the ate stupa and
being drugged
takes away your ability to judge the
situation the drugs are kicking in hard
and as danny here dances she's finally
able to forget about her trauma for the
first time since it happened
when the last two girls fall the whole
village congratulates her as she's
crowned at this year's may queen
she's pushed onto a platform and all the
women carry her to a giant dinner table
in the middle of the compound
she's seated at the head while her
boyfriend sits at the others and he
starts to lose control
as the drugs begin to take effect he
sees the girl maya leave the table and
can't keep his eyes off her
the village elder announces that as the
may queen dany must bless the villagers
crops alone and she can't bring her
boyfriend with her she gets in the
carriage and is taken to the farmlands
leaving chris
behind okay i don't like where this is
going
the last time so inside the head of a
table they jumped off a cliff
we've also been here for several days
and haven't met a single woman who has
been the may queen before
just like there's no one over the age of
72 this could be very bad news for us
but there's actually a silver lining
here because right now
danny has more power and control over
her life than she has had at any point
since her family died
she's the may queen and now that they
actually need us to participate for the
rituals to continue i would try to hold
the entire celebration hostage and
leverage his power to look for
opportunities to escape
i would demand that if they want me to
bless their crops then they must let
chris here join me
these people deeply respect their
traditions and would likely do what was
asked in order to preserve them but we
could also think outside the box
and use this power as a means to escape
i would try to get my hands on the drug
they gave chris
because if it makes you this [ __ ] up
we could slip it in one of the villagers
drinks or force them to take it
now this is no ordinary drug this guy
can't seem to resist whatever he's told
to do no matter how hard he tries
and this is exactly what happens when
you're on scopology which is one of the
world's most dangerous drugs
because it makes you do almost anything
you're told that makes this the perfect
solution for a getaway because if we can
get our hands on these and find a way to
trick the villagers into ingesting it
then we can get them to do whatever we
want whether it's to hand over the keys
to the car or follow the leader off of
the cliff
as soon as danny is gone a girl
approaches her boyfriend she's made a
path of flower petals leading straight
to him and he realizes he's supposed to
follow the path to mate with the village
girl he's led to a room filled with
naked women and on the floor is maya
who's waiting for him
too stoned to resist he gives in and
makes the biggest mistake of his life
later the girlfriend comes back to the
village and is told to go to the elders
house but she hears noises coming from a
nearby building they tell her not to be
concerned but she ignores their advice
and goes to investigate
she approaches the door and it's locked
but when she looks through the keyhole
she's horrified to find her boyfriend is
cheating on her she can't stomach what
she's just seen and turns around the
puke as the village women rush in to
comfort her
now she's lost everyone she's ever loved
and they take her back to the dormitory
to calm her down
the boyfriend finally comes to his
senses and realizing what he's just done
runs out of the building embarrassed he
looks for someone to hide but that's
when he sees his friend's leg sticking
out of the soil
panicking he runs inside of a chicken
coop and checks if anyone is following
but when he turns around he's shocked to
find the body of the tourist hanging
from the ceiling
taking a closer look he realizes the man
has been turned into a blood eagle and
his lungs are still breathing
suddenly a villager appears and blows
powder in his face
drugged he collapses to the ground as
the elders prepare him for their final
ritual
when he wakes up a woman tells him that
he's completely paralyzed and can't
speak
the elders announced that they will now
sacrifice nine people for their last
ceremony
four villagers four tourists and one
person that dany their new may queen
will have to select personally
she's given the choice between a
villager or her paralyzed boyfriend
and feeling betrayed by all that he's
done she chooses her boyfriend to die
the villagers bring all the bodies to
the temple to prepare them for the last
ritual
in another house the man removes the
organs from this bear and puts the
boyfriend inside of its corpse
heavily drugged with no way to escape
he's placed in the temple
along with the other human sacrifices
and can do nothing but watch as the
building is set on fire
screams of pain erupt from inside of the
temple and the villagers begin wailing
in traditional celebration but dany here
looks on and smiles and she now realizes
that she has everything she needs right
here and that this
is where she belongs but what do you
think how would you be mid-summer
let me know with a comment down below
thank you so much for watching leave a
like and subscribe
and check out the how to be playlist for
more videos like this
until next time have a damn good day